perfect all right good morning afternoon
or evening everybody and welcome to the
Monday 30th September 2019 meaning of
the ipfs documentation and developer
user experience working group
I am your official unofficial host for
the week Jessica and without any further
ado let's just run straight into the
agenda it's gonna be sort of a modified
agenda this week let's run through
actually I'm gonna run through
everything except the docks platform
tech stack framework stuff because Chris
you will hit that harder and in more
detail because you're in all sorts of
interesting things to say first up in
the agenda recurring item of the okay
are q3 okay our wrap-up and q4 okay our
definition we are done with that our q4
okay ours are in the official
spreadsheet you can read them either in
their truncated form by going to the
docs repoed github / ipfs slash Docs you
can find the summary version of that as
well as new link out to the official
spreadsheets you can see where they fit
into the rest of I P FS okay ours in
general I also believe that the
discussion Chris is leading in a few
minutes will actually wrap up one of our
q3 okay ours so there may be some slight
amendment to that to go from $95 set
finished
she's been unlocked all that good stuff
so those exist they're skipping the
platform discussion for a sec recurring
item hire documentation specialist that
continues to be recurring being that
this is a public call and their
confidentiality of application type
issues if you have questions about that
feel free to hit me up and we can
discuss it in more detail but it
continues tactical hotfixes i've also
since we're we're wrapping up the
quarter as of today i have taken you may
notice all of the things that were
previously labeled okay our hot fixes in
the repo and changed them to be labeled
for content enhancements you
read a little bit more in detail about
that um in the readme of the repo itself
to get a little more insight into our
labeling structure everything that had
been labeled a hotfix in history is now
label the content enhancement it's also
been t-shirt sized and given a rough
indication of difficulty so particularly
for folks in the community this should
make it a whole lot easier for you to
pick up issues depending on what your
interests are how much time you have
available and so forth again happy to
answer any questions anybody may have on
that but that that should be relatively
easy I'm gonna save us time I'm throwing
too much more detail now there's
anything we need to know about metrics
this week are we okay just kind of
letting that let that be for this week
Chris not so much yeah we should
evaluate that separately and I think
that actually will justify sound cool
yeah and yeah we do have have plans this
week to blow out the key for okay ours
into more discrete github issues and so
right now everything is set up all the
okay ours that you see in the top level
of in the readme of the repo are now
associated with issues labeled epic in
the Ducks repo the plan this is is -
over the course of this week blow that
out into more discrete bite-sized pieces
which particularly for folks in the
community will make it a little bit
easier to track our work because it goes
along Jill did you have stuff from
protocol you want to share not much in
continuation didn't last week so I just
I kept working on a new tutorial I've
drafted a couple more more lessons and
I'm having a bit of trouble on the last
one but hopefully talking to some of the
more of the people working on the ipfs
inner workings I'll be able to clear
some some doubts and carry on from there
awesome awesome
sounds like you're you don't overall are
really making good progress especially
for being is new to this project to zero
that's really awesome
and then obviously if there's anything
that any of us can help you with while
Terry is a talk line camp and recovering
from off like him you know please please
be in touch but great great great
anything else that we want to add before
we launch into the platform discussion
Jill do you already have connections to
everyone you need to talk to you on the
IP beside you have someone's brain to
pick yeah I'll probably just talk to you
there's been my contact points for any
questions I have all right cool well if
you if you need other people to reach
just thank and happy to connect you to
whoever is needed okay thank you Annie
sorry if you have if you want to bounce
anything off of of me from you know
design usability whatever perspective
them I'm I would be super excited to
poke around at anything oh yeah as that
is that are you working mostly locally
or is that is a branch being I'm working
on a branch I don't know if I'll have
many usability questions because I'm
just using the templates for the lessons
we already have okay yeah yeah yeah I
think that once I have the drafts for
all the lessons I have planned I'll
probably ask whoever's available to
check them out and see if they make
sense and get some feedback from there
awesome thanks and also a good excuse to
actually start to you know get to know
each other and work together
that's my evil plan your evil plan for
collaboration your friends awesome okay
cool cool well Chris over to you
excellent thank you for leaving in
detection um comes up time a week when I
switch on my screen let's move on
right um
right okay eyes q3 we will be saying
goodbye to this one very soon but in
preempt where we're at so far I put this
as a no point 99 because I'm essentially
just going to summarize what I've been
going through in the last couple weeks
and where I got to with the work that I
was doing last week to finalize some of
the prototypes and make sure that we are
in good State for the kicking off q4
with some prototyping in the actual
platform of choice that gives us the
most potential for for what we believe
will help the team out with the
documentation and a given developer
experience and the primary thing I'm
writing up right now is just the actual
overall summary for this little preview
of it here in the muck down what I'm
going through is our basic person issue
and link to this one stays up on github
but I'm trying to flesh out the full
full summary but I'm essentially broken
down into the three primary platforms
that I've been testing over the last
couple of weeks and which has been
predominately around aku Soros and their
updated version branch where they go
with this
gasps beeping a framework a choice that
we've used for other products and in the
company but also something that works
well with our experience within PL and
typically towards the react framework
site and new to the arena was kind of
depressed and evaluating that based on
something that has a lot potential from
a documentation standpoint because it
gets a lot further early on and ended up
evaluating and breaking those down into
sort of sections of I would say primary
concern so things that we want to
achieve from from a product perspective
here is that we are essentially not here
to have as much develop a resource time
into building a documentation platform
we want to make sure that we are adding
as much value to the ipfs docs output
and helping users achieve and maintain
and build applications use
if s so with the priority of that in
mind it's like I want to make sure that
we are spending as much effort and
resource on delivering that focus and
not so much on specking out and building
out all the spoke functionality and
features that we need to actually
achieve that there's gonna be a balance
of both but if we can the whole
evaluation piece has been around trying
to fulfill the opportunity of making
sure we can and deliver as much value as
we can with as minimal amount of
resource and development because I feel
like get us as much further as we can
sue and the things that gave most
potential it's things that were
interesting like Dhaka Soros did have a
very good scope to start with I the the
version one branch essentially came to a
point where it's now in maintenance mode
and we they're not looking to further
further implement new features on top of
that extensibility was very very poor we
can we could basically use their use the
product out of the box
it had most of the features we were
looking for which is why I front this is
on a scale of one to ten right great
about a nine because we've it does come
with versioning it does come with
internationalization and integration for
search but customization on the whole is
pretty it's pretty port so you end up
with a basic experience of which we may
in have been stuck in in a bit of a
development sort of active maintenance
mode and right now dr. Soros - which is
the the branch that I was basically
evaluating recently and built a
prototype on top of and doesn't have as
many features as I get go but the whole
extension model is basically built in
order to make it more customizable and
so give it maybe you know a couple of
couple of months where people to
contribute to that ecosystem they might
actually flesh out some of those plugins
but for now there are only base level
integrations that I found that will
essentially get us get started so and to
the core features that we do want to use
our versioning and internationalization
they're currently not complete and
development does seem slow there was a
lot of promise around this to be
delivered and like many months ago and
it doesn't seem like
very active also on the forums there's a
few alphas getting really sporadically
but it's it's it's not giving me a lot
of hope that we should actually invest
too much effort into that direction and
this is reflected in their overall
numbers of what we've got here so
ranking things on by Adler box features
customizer customizability and developer
experience Ben as in for us to actually
maintain and build on top of this
product and extensibility based on their
plugins that with all the plug-in mode
model that allows you to actually extend
or warm or modify the actual framework
and current extension is available so
dr. Oz 2 is higher up enough likes it
very much more extensible there's not
many extensions yet but also the hope of
which we yet it's the development it
seems pretty slow right now and I don't
have a lot of confidence that we we
should go that way and Gatsby is a
different option but it requires it
gives us the most amount potential it's
like the biggest open source of risk the
service framework builder right now
that's been funded and there's a lot of
active development around it from
different different independent
companies but also as a platform level
they're doing a hosted version of it so
it's very it's definitely a very mature
space right now and I do feel like it's
a lot confidence in going that route the
only downside is of course this is a
much more bespoke model if we were to go
this way we'd end up having to build out
a lot of the core functionality
including
based search integration language and
internationalization we would need to
figure out a way of doing versioning
there's nothing on the box for that we'd
have to create our own theme that would
basically support that with the nice
typography and also make it responsive
and reactive so it's it's not really the
primary choice for me right now because
it feels like it it will require a lot
more effort to get to the similar
baseline of where we want to be with
something like the press where of them
finally got to and actually started out
as being a document documentation and
platform to begin with it was it was
kind of written as an eye a quick sort
of framework in order to boot up some
documentation
and at the Box features wise it's not
it's got enough for what we want right
now there are a couple of core things
missing that could cause some slight
complication but I do feel that there
are some contributions out there that
will help us so one of those being AB
note is the versioning API versioning so
that we have to come up with a slightly
customized way of creating versioning
using using the product but titanium
have also started building up some
plugins that we can contribute to that
would actually help enable that feature
but it does have internationalization
has a very nice baseline theme it also
has additional features that we will
take advantage of such as the ability to
enable the app as a progressive web app
which means you can do I'll find caching
to start with so that you can if if
network connectivity is poor or if you
get disconnected on a train journey on
the way home you will still be able to
read the docs and search through them
and on your mobile phone or whatever
else you are using at a time so some of
those things we get for free or actually
you know actually just give us a lot
more hope and it's very extensible is
very mature right now in terms of the
plugins as there's plenty available but
it's not all specifically focused or
documentation it's also got enough
customization and a flexibility to break
basically branch out into doing
individual pages and API documentation
as well so one area focus that we do
want to improve as the duck team is to
make sure that we have a rich API
browsing experience especially as we
develop alternative versions whether in
different languages or we yeah we have
various outputs if we want to make sure
that we've got the option to present
that and maintain it with inside of the
codebase and generate that out we also
did in did sort of explore some of the
hosted options as well and get Booker's
one to know because we do use internally
but it's it does provide a nice user
experience but we wouldn't be able to
get there sort of CLI integration and
customization we kind of want to get
from using an open-source product to a
platform and I've got obviously some
more detailed overview
notice that we've put together which is
just more like these are the key areas
of concern that I've been trying to
evaluate this on and just making sure
that we could address most of those
things and and sort of figure our way
through through the maze of features um
so the proposal right now is basically
I'm finishing this as the this is the
the best in case sort of example of
where I feel like we've got to at this
point and it'll give us the the maximum
potential for the next phase and I
personally want to invest the effort
into something like if you press now and
see if we can within a couple of weeks
sprint really get as far as we want
using new I am have come up with as well
so we'll use that as a beta option as
start to build out the documentation
navigation and use that as a framework
for testing for additional features that
will add on so as a team we're going to
break down of C on Thursday and get down
get the individual features and road map
together so that we can we can actually
start to figure out and how what the
what the progressive release plan will
be for something like this and we won't
need to do a ton of custom design work
to start with I it's because the actual
framework yourself just provides some
nice default States which means we can
invest more time and effort into
actually fleshing out the documentation
with potentially visualizations and
diagrams and so being resource not being
too resource trapped on that is actually
an advantage for us as well so um as you
can see some ways to do that will be
done today I will get that finished and
then this will be posted up on github
along with the additional resources
which will clean up this is also a
prioritized feature set that we did as a
team exercise we went through
essentially the core things we'd like to
have that will basically enable us to
progress the enhance the experience over
time things that we can't do right now
with the current current output we've
got and things that we'd like to
implement and that will give us an
ability to do so so this was we we wrote
all the individual features and then we
did a poll
you exercise with each one each of us
and then we just summarize them and
sorted by priority and this is
essentially what the list came out like
so it's this is a cute a clue for
potentially what features we will
prioritize in our output but then the
next transition is to take all of these
write them up as individual sort of
issues and essentially have some kind of
voting exercise where we can enable the
public to to suggest and and the company
themselves to soar folk vote on things
that they think are important because
then that may kind of steer a navigation
towards what we'll do next with design
so nothing too visual to share at this
stage and there's not no statistician
that slides in this presentation but it
is more of an overview at the point but
I think as we go further are more stuff
to focus our effort towards and yet
towards those releases so and yeah I
welcome your input if you've got
anything this stage but this is this is
me silent silent clapping the end of q3
last week then I think I would have put
some nice slice it's not a chance inside
we can read through that ASCII art work
right now totally totally not needed I
had so two questions one comment the
comment is for anybody on this call I
will add a link to the to your your high
level comparison at the top of the docs
readme we've got a list of helpful
artifacts sort of foundational artifacts
to our process for q3 and q4 works so
I'll add that link in there if you don't
want to go and dig in through the notes
just go to the docks repo and you can
find that document there two questions
question number one is for a nun
initially who is is sort of sort of a
front-end type person what's the meaning
curve for getting my way around
buprestid if I speak some JavaScript and
various sort of front-end
would you say that actually Eric and I
had a quick conversation about this
earlier that we want to try to isolate
any person who wants to contribute to
the documentation from having to do too
much technical work it will be a case of
downloading the actual call Cove ace and
then basically contributing to that way
but you it's it's not much harder than
writing and markdown file in a directory
so will be the ability to basically add
to fork the repo and just add a new
markdown file in a folder and then there
will be some guides of what we could
actually structure that to say give some
people onboarding and you know if we go
further down and we find that we don't
get contribute contributions that way
then there'll be an opportunity to make
some kind of suggest this I you i to let
enable that and at least then we can get
the barrier to entry a bit lower but on
the whole is it's pretty smooth you can
get it without having to build out your
own custom stack and asking isn't it
like node version yeah yeah sure and if
somebody just finds if someone's just
hanging out and they find a typo
somewhere they can just change a
markdown document yes everything will be
done but as I guess I'm cheating at all
oh cool um question number two was
timeline wise you're talking about and
we've talked a little bit about doing a
sprint like right off the bat just to
sort of get a proof of concept in there
do you think it's reasonable to be able
to have the new mini structure that Eric
and I have been working on in something
beatable that we can concept test around
the 15th of the month yeah I say yes it
pray be a couple of days so I should get
the boot bootstrap model up and then the
repo itself won't be in you know perfect
shade for like public consumption but we
can certainly open up the doors to
enable us to put their steps in and
that's the intention really it's just
that we can work in a collaborative way
now where I can get if we've got this
decision down and we're happy to move
forward I'd rather focus because it's
relatively short quite condensed key for
that want to make as much possible with
this and one discussion was like to
showcase all the prototypes that are
built based on these existing version
but then they'll see that that's an
additional amount of effort involved
through that stage so I'd rather
prioritize and focus I want to just
working totally afar we get an agreement
and I'd be happy everything I mean
judging you from from both from your
summary analysis here and then just sort
of like the conversations that we've had
off and on over the last few weeks I
mean it sounds like pretty there's not a
lot of doubt related to this
recommendation on anybody's part so I
mean it sort of feels like the decision
is we POC this over the next two or
three weeks and then just just just to
be sure and then we run with it is that
sort of what the what you're operating
under essentially yeah there will be
some slight bottlenecks that I guess
we'll face as we get further down in
terms of structure and how will do
internationalization but that won't come
immediately and there's also the bad
Italian added value always correct but
the file coin docks are also written
using a view press models so that should
we all the model and insight that we get
from this we can then apply that on the
whole if we build outside a centralized
documentation product and for the
company it's quite nicely aligned with
the efforts we're doing so far and
beautiful Molly um so I think the I'm
glad we were talking about like the ease
of contribution because definitely the I
make up PR in github and that PR is
picked up by CI and actions and auto
deployed to the documentation site is so
useful right now and like I think an
immensely valuable way of getting
contributors in the door so I'd strongly
push for us to reset up process instead
of asking people to you know use use the
desktop grab it build it ship it like to
instead where where changes are just
changing markdown to enable those
contravention contributions through the
github CI or interface and I guess the
other the other piece here that I think
is super important is that whatever a
solution we choose we can host on ipfs
and
I think that's a pretty important
component of our all of our websites and
something that we should make sure that
I think our documentation right now how
can do so that we don't regress on that
side I would add once done and never got
two minutes you might have got to cover
it all but there might be a slight
aggression in order to add progress to
start with and so that right now there
is a very long thread that's open
regarding the same sort of troubles that
you have with most front-end frameworks
we're adding a lot more rich
functionality in the browser which is
currently what's not available with
using your Hugo research and Wade the
way the frame one's gonna go out there
are some relative path issues that we
will have to basically get around
ourselves I don't feel that has been
impossible I just feel like that as a
priority I'd rather make advances with
the features and functionality and
flexibility to start with and then come
and tackle that head-on with the mindset
that will make this work everywhere in
the future in the meantime here we will
absolutely be able to host a on ipfs and
will that use the github actions and
automations but I couldn't find any
solution use these either react or
Gatsby to do that in an elegant way even
the one that Gatsby plug-in that we've
written is a full it rewrites all the
paths after that the build output so we
could do something very similar to do
that but yeah like that for now even the
same with our corn dogs one that is
hosted on github pages just because this
integrates really seamlessly with that
experience so and we can make it magic
for the meantime and then we'll improve
it as we go along and is for launch not
necessarily for beta we could test on on
whatever is gonna give us that useful
you know I want to segment it I use a
value added things with you know things
that we want to achieve as a whole and I
think is a great demonstration for our
technology and how to do that and we are
fighting against a little bit of
Education piece in the web that we also
just be ahead so I think that pieces
that was a good challenge for us to go
through because then we'll understand
the pain at others facing law yeah
overall I think we're in a good space
awesome awesome well I know we're
hitting up at the end of our time so I'm
gonna respect everybody's time I know
several of us have another meeting you
run off to you thank you so much again
Chris um anybody from the outside world
who was not on this call right now keep
an eye on the docs github repo over the
next week or so you're gonna start
seeing all of the sort of large-scale
stuff for you q4 start getting built
into more discrete piece parts if
there's anything that catches your eye
please comment hit one of us up you know
we love help and we love collaboration
so keep an eye on that we are I think
all of us super super super excited to
kick off this work so say yeah my world
has experience in this area
please come along and say hi as well
alright world well have a have a
wonderful a week I will get this up on
the youtubes real soon now and see you
all next week if not sooner thank you
very much for joining us